docs: publish v3.2 feature docs (#232)
arcus-azure/arcus.eventgrid: docs/versioned_docs/version-v3.2.0/02-Features/endpoint-validation.md

﻿---
title: "Endpoint validation"
layout: default
---

# Endpoint validation

We provide support for endpoint validation, when implementing your own custom web hook.

- [Endpoint validation](#endpoint-validation)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Azure Event Grid authorization](#azure-event-grid-authorization)
    - [Enforce authorization globally](#enforce-authorization-globally)
      - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Enforce authorization per controller or operation](#enforce-authorization-per-controller-or-operation)
      - [Configuration](#configuration-1)
  - [Azure Event Grid subscription validation](#azure-event-grid-subscription-validation)
    - [Enforce subscription validation per controller or operation](#enforce-subscription-validation-per-controller-or-operation)
    - [Use subscription validation in Azure Functions](#use-subscription-validation-in-azure-functions)

## Installation

The features described here require the following package:

> > **⚠ This package used to be called `Arcus.EventGrid.Security`. Please make sure that you migrate towards this package as it's not being actively maintained beyond v3.2.**

Reviewer: Instead of saying 'this package', I'd explicitly mention the name of the new package.
I'd also put this warning below the code-sample that shows to command to install the package

Author: Yes, will do! 👍  Thx!

Author: Done in https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.eventgrid/pull/232/commits/1a1df129b22cc0fe3d30d65319152f00a54e7ffe

```shell
PM> Install-Package Arcus.EventGrid.Security.WebApi
```
## Azure Event Grid authorization

Azure Event Grid authorization allows to secure your webhook with a secret key (taken from the query string or an HTTP header). 

> This is needed, because Azure Event Grid is send a validation request to a newly configured web hook, in order to prevent people leveraging Azure Event Grid to bring down a 3rd party API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is required, because Azure Event Grid sends a validation request to a newly configured web hook in order to prevent people leveraging Azure Event Grid to bring down a 3rd party API. 
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.eventgrid/pull/232/commits/ce25ecdfee823a37662b07ef1fded7115a06a213

### Enforce authorization globally

We created the `EventGridAuthorizationFilter` MVC filter that will secure the endpoint and handle the handshake.

```csharp
using Arcus.EventGrid.WebApi.Security;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public class Startup
{
    public void ConfigureService(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        // Looks for the 'x-api-key' header in the HTTP request and tries to match it with the secret retrieved in the secret store with the name 'MySecret'.
        services.AddMvc(options => options.Filters.AddEventGridAuthorization(HttpRequestProperty.Header, "x-api-key", "MySecret")));
    }
}
```

For this setup to work, an Arcus secret store is required as the provided secret name (in this case `"MySecret"`) will be looked up.
See [our offical documentation](https://security.arcus-azure.net/features/secret-store/) for more information about setting this up.

#### Configuration

The `EventGridAuthorizationFilter` has some additional consumer-configurable options to influence the behavior of the authorization.

```csharp
using Arcus.EventGrid.WebApi.Security;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public class Startup
{

>     public void ConfigureService(IServiceCollection services)

Reviewer: Isn't this ConfigureServices ?

Author: Yes, that's right 😅 , will change that. Thx!

Author: Done in https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.eventgrid/pull/232/commits/bbc1e0949e9829439e511434056f18480cdffe1c

    // For CloudEvents validation:
    // When receiving an HTTP OPTIONS request, looks for the `WebHook-Request-Origin` request header.
    // -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    // For Azure Event Grid validation:
    // Looks for the `Aeg-Event-Type` header in the HTTP request, if it contains the `SubscriptionValidation` value the request body will be deserialized and validated.
    // The action attribute will short-circuit the incoming request and return the validation result as an `SubscriptionValidationResponse` 
    // (see: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.azure.eventgrid.models.subscriptionvalidationresponse?view=azure-dotnet).
    // -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [HttpGet, HttpOptions]
    [EventGridSubscriptionValidation]
    public IActionResult Validation()
    {
        return Ok();
    }
}
```

### Use subscription validation in Azure Functions

> This library provides a security library called `Arcus.EventGrid.Security.AzureFunctions` where the subscription validation is available as a dedicated service as shown in the example below.

Reviewer: LIttle bit a weird sentence imho.  A library that provides a library.

Reviewer: Arcus provides a security library ?

Author: Yes, we can improve that. Changed it to: `The security library called `Arcus.EventGrid.Security.AzureFunctions` provides subscription validation as a dedicated service as shown in the example below.`.

Author: Done in https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.eventgrid/pull/232/commits/50344d460a9fa719d92886331ca8f105197db2e3
